today I'm Maura killer and I'm coming to
you today from beautiful Valencia Spain
I'm at this beautiful dressage facility
here in Spain and I'm doing a bit of
work with some horses this one here he's
a bit hot and sweaty right now and so am
I as you can tell it's very hot and
humid here it's summer in Spain I've
just been a little bit of groundwork
with this one and what the groundwork is
it's a place where you can start having
a dialogue with a horse when you're with
an answer he already knows you know I
mean like for me the beginning of the
groundwork is get them to yield their
front end away from you going to yield
their hind end away from you which is
something these horses already know how
to do because this horse's mother and
any horse he was in a pasture with has
done that and so you know I've been
watching some of these dressage riders
here and they're amazing and they just
have such a great way of taking like any
good trainer taking a small idea and
turning into another idea what you turn
into another idea into another idea and
eventually you're doing some really
amazing stuff and like I said just to me
the groundwork is about asking the horse
a question he already knows the answer
to
you know before I start asking him to do
what I want to do I want to ask him to
do something he already knows how to do
which is like you look front end then
hunting and then eventually I'll turn
that into more elaborate things but it
kind of reminded me I had a lady come
for less in a few years ago and she
wanted to come for a flying lead change
lessons and she she came from where she
came from us and she's riding on a horse
and I said so how do you ask your horse
to change leads and basically she told
me a very structured dressage type why
I've asked me horses change leads which
is the same way I would ask a horse to
change leads and she told me that and I
said okay and who trained this horse to
change leads and she said what do you
mean I said well you're asking to change
leads who trained him to change lead she
said well no one trained him to change
leads and I said well you said he can
change leads head you know he can change
leads and she said well he can't out in
the pasture what I'm getting at here is
she was asking one of the most technical
things you can do with a horse's body
canter on this lead and do a flying they
change to that lead but she had no
starting point and no process leading up
to it she'd seen him do it in the
pasture and she decided well that he can
do it out there I can do it in here and
she was asking the right way but she was
asking that horse like he'd been trained
how to do it and so just remember when
you're training your horse anything
you're trying to get them to do you want
to teach them in a step-by-step process
how to get to that point once you get to
that point the thing you ask them should
be easy so anyway that's all from
Valencia Spain hope that helps we'll see
you guys next time